Previously,
on When Calls the Heart...
Congratulations.
I finished my manuscript
and sent it off
to half a dozen
different publishers.
I really need to get to work
on that bid for the railroad.
Someone giving you
trouble out there?
Ever since I became mayor.
It's not so much
what you can do for me,
it's what I can
do for you.
[♪♪♪]
[SIGHS] Florence says
the eggs are too runny.
Florence is going to get
a day-old biscuit
if she isn't careful.
[LAUGHS]
Oh, those are beautiful.
Who are they for?
For you. They were at
the front door. There's no card.
Oh. They must be from Frank.
He knows I love daisies.
Busy this morning.
A lot of new faces in town.
Nothing we can't handle,
partner.
You got it, partner.
Hi.
Ned asked me
to bring these over.
Oh, and I appreciate that.
And thank you for the flowers.
They're not from me.
[♪♪♪]
Thank you.
Good morning,
Elizabeth.
Oh. And what do we have here?
Sugar, vanilla... pork sausage?
Looks like someone is making
another of her famous creations.
It's just a simple dinner
for Jack.
Well, let me let you in on
a little secret.
It is Vienna sausage,
not vanilla sausage.
I know you don't put
the vanilla in the sausage.
Of course you do.
[BOTH CHUCKLE]
Sorry, Miss Thatcher.
No mail.
Oh, um, thank you, Katie.
I'll check back again later.
Still waiting to hear from
those nasty old publishers?
I sent out my manuscript
ages ago.
I once waited three months
for a callback
for the lead in
Million-Dollar Smile,
and, one day, out of the blue,
a telegram arrived.
And you got the part?
Well... no.
The producers ran out of cash
before it opened.
No one was smiling.
But the moral is
I never lost hope.
[SIGHS]
I assume you've heard
about the problems
we're having up in
the northern territories.
I've heard about
the gun runners.
Well, that's just
the tip of the iceberg.
It's all-out war up there, and
there's a lot of innocent people
being caught in
the middle of it.
We're forming a special unit.
We're looking
for proven leaders.
You could make
a real difference.
Well, I'm honored...
But I have a job.
I'm offering you
a division of your own, son.
Opportunity like this
doesn't come along every day.
Well, just promise me
you'll think about it.
[DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES]
[♪♪♪]
Oh, there you are.
Lee. What are you doing
back from work so soon?
Is everything all right?
Oh, I'm great,
and I have big news.
Actually, you know what?
It's bigger than big.
Wait. Let me guess.
Let me guess.
Mrs. Nelson had her twins?
No.
Oh. We're going to
Cape Fullerton
to see that new production
of Madame Butterfly?
No.
It's the anniversary
of our first kiss?
No. Uh, no. Just--
Whoa. Just let me finish.
All right?
We got the contract.
Oh, ho-ho. Lee.
Oh, I'm so proud of you.
We'll have to celebrate Tonight.
I'll make your favorite dinner
with champagne and strawberries.
No, no. I can't tonight.
I have to go to Union City.
Union City? Why?
We're doubling production.
I need more equipment
for the sawmill.
But I thought
once you got the contract,
things were going to go back
to the way they were.
Now the real work starts.
But I thought we were going to
have some time together.
Oh, don't worry. There'll be
plenty of time for you and me.
When?
[SIGHS]
Rosemary...
just because I'm busy,
it doesn't mean
I love you any less.
Put the champagne on ice, and
we'll celebrate when I get back.
I love you.
"Goldilocks woke with a start.
"She jumped out of bed
and away she ran,
"down the stairs
and out into the forest,
and the three bears
never saw her again."
Heh. Now remember,
we were learning
that some animals
like bears
do something very special
in the wintertime.
Can anyone tell me
what that's called? Laura?
Hibernation.
Very good.
All right, everyone,
it's time for recess.
Now don't forget--Robert
is the class monitor this week.
So please make sure
you listen to him
when he says
it's time to come inside.
[CLANGING]
Wanna play kickball?
Are you kidding?
I'm class monitor.
It's a full-time job.
[♪♪♪]
[CHUCKLES]
Going on a trip?
Yeah, Jesse.
Heading to Union City
for a few days.
That contract's
big news around here.
Big news for everyone.
Any luck getting a job
with the railroad?
Not yet. Too many other guys
with more experience than me.
You should come work for me.
You mean that?
Yeah. I'm going to need
all the help I can get
once we double production.
Go see Murphy tomorrow morning.
He'll find you something to do.
Mr. Coulter, thank you.
No, no, no. Don't thank me.
You're gonna earn every penny.
Believe me.
They offered you a fair deal.
There was nothing fair
about it.
Gentlemen, please.
A brand-new house
on a bigger plot
and a job with the railroad?
I couldn't grow weeds
on anything they've offered me.
And I'm a farmer.
I'm not a rail worker.
But you could own that land
outright.
You don't have to
uproot your family.
Uproot your family...
Is there a problem here?
No. No problem.
Why don't we all
carry on, then?
Jed? You want to tell me
what was that about?
The railroad wants my land
for the new mainline.
Yost thinks I'm going to
ruin it for everyone.
Your lease
is with the town.
The railroad doesn't make
that decision. I do.
And I have a meeting with
Mr. Wyatt today.
Railroad always wins.
That's the way of things.
Jed.
We will come up with a solution
that works for everyone.
I promise.
I told Laura that we wouldn't
have to move again.
And that's a promise
that I intend to keep.
[♪♪♪]
[COWBELL CLANGS]
Everyone inside.
Recess is over.
You heard Miss Thatcher.
Everyone back inside.
Brownie, would you like
some sugar in your tea?
Opal,
recess is over.
Come on, or you're gonna
get us all in trouble.
We have to go
or Miss Thatcher will be mad.
Oh, no. Opal, look.
A bear.
A bear? Where?
Right over there.
Near the trees. Quick, run.
I'll scare him off.
[SCREAMS]
[OPAL SCREAMS]
[SCREAMING]
Heh heh.
The mean old bear
was going to eat me.
How big was it?
You chased it away?
Robert, are you all right?
Uh... the bear's gone.
I scared it off.
Well, that was
very brave of you.
Robert's my hero.
Is this
the coaling station?
You do your homework.
I'm impressed.
What if the main line
came into Hope Valley
from the north
instead of the south?
Then you could put
your coaling station here,
near Bambrick Road.
Let me explain something
to you, Mrs. Stanton.
If we move the main line
to the north,
that is gonna cost us
a whole lot more time and money.
It would save you from
building another access road.
This wouldn't have
anything to do with
the farmland
south of town, would it?
I'm trying to find a solution
that's fair.
We've offered Mr. Campbell
a different plot of land
and a great job working for us.
Now, I don't know
what else we could do.
Jed is a farmer
and so are his neighbors.
They don't want to work
for the railroad.
With all due respect,
if my superiors find out
we have to start again
because of
a couple of holdouts,
they may decide to move
the entire main line elsewhere.
That doesn't sound like you're
leaving room for negotiation.
This is a partnership between
the railroad and Hope Valley,
and as mayor, you have to decide
what's more important--
a few farmers
getting what they want
or the future of your town.
I'll take it
under consideration.
If there's nothing else,
I should be getting back.
Mayor Stanton?
Did you like the flowers?
They were from you?
I heard you like daisies.
Huh. Guess I'm not the only one
who does their homework.
[♪♪♪]
She's not gonna
make this easy.
No, she's not.
[♪♪♪]
So... how was your meeting,
gentlemen?
I don't think the mayor
quite understands what we're
trying to do for this town.
Have you given any thought
to our conversation?
Excuse me
for being blunt, Mr. Gowen,
but you made it quite clear that
your services don't come cheap.
I think we'll take our chances
with the little lady.
Mr. Avery, did you hear
about Robert and the bear?
Yeah. I heard that
he chased it away.
Sounds like we might have
a future Mountie on our hands.
A real hero, too.
One day,
I'm going to marry him.
Heh. He's a lucky man.
Come on, Opal.
I'm sure that bear
is miles away by now,
but don't you worry.
Excuse me.
Bill.
Spotting a bear
that close to the school.
Sounds a bit... odd,
doesn't it?
Bears don't like noise.
Nothing noisier than
a school full of kids.
[KIDS CHATTING]
Hey, I told you once.
Get off my land.
Didn't mean any harm. Just
doing what the boss told us.
If I find one more
of these stakes on my property,
there'll be trouble.
You hear me?
Afternoon, Miss Thatcher.
Afternoon.
Is everything all right,
Mr. Campbell?
The surveyors set up camp
here yesterday.
Laura... run inside,
wash up for dinner?
Bye, Laura.
Bye, Miss Thatcher.
What brings you out here,
Miss Thatcher?
Oh, um, Robert saw a bear
at school today.
He scared him off,
but it had Laura worried,
so I walked her home.
You know him?
Mm-hmm.
That's Hank Rivera.
His son Cyrus
goes to school with Laura.
The railroad's waiting for us
to get out of the way
so they can drive the main line
right through here.
Someone needs to do something
to stop them.
Abigail hasn't made
a decision yet.
Ahh. Well, I should
get dinner on the table.
Oh, uh... thank you
for walking Laura home.
Mm-hmm.
[♪♪♪]
Can I get you anything else?
No, I'm fine.
Ahh. Um...
Oh... goodness. I didn't
realize it was so late.
I must've lost track of time.
I suppose you're wondering
why I'm not at home
having dinner
with my husband.
Actually, I--
Lee's out of town.
He's very busy
with the new railroad contract.
I heard--
He doesn't like small projects.
He likes to think big.
It's really not...
so bad...
him being so busy.
I'm sure we'll find time
to curl up next to the fire...
go for long walks together...
listen to soft music
late into the evening...
when we're 85.
Rosemary, wait. Don't cry.
It's not that bad.
Oh, it is worse than bad.
Lee said it himself. He said,
"Now the real work starts."
I'm afraid I'm never
gonna see him again.
Well, that's not true.
That sawmill's gonna be running
before you know it,
and Lee's gonna have plenty
of time to spend with you.
You really think so?
Oh, I know so.
Well, what'll I do
until then?
Just... focus on
something else.
There isn't anything else.
My advice column...
but ever since the honeymoon,
that's fallen by the wayside.
I went and checked
the mailbox last week.
Not a single letter.
No one in town
is having any problems,
except for me.
[SOBS]
[STAMMERS]
R-Rosemary...
Rosemary, you've worked at
this cafe before, haven't you?
Y-Yes.
Well, with all these
new people coming to town,
we're gonna need
some help here.
Abigail's busy being mayor.
I've got my own business to run.
We can't count on Clara
to do everything on her own.
Are you offering me a job?
And it might help start
your column again.
How so?
You wouldn't believe
the rumors I hear around here.
You know Mrs. Sullivan?
She's got eyes
for the new barber.
She could use your advice.
You know what?
You're right.
The cafe is a great place
to find out what's going on.
I'll take the job.
Great. I will take your plate.
I will take it myself.
If I'm going to work for you...
might as well
jump in right away.
Ahh.
You've been quiet tonight.
Hmm. I could say
the same about you.
Is there something
you want to talk about?
No.
Something
you want to talk about?
No.
All right, fine. Ahem.
This letter came for me
on the afternoon stage.
Who's it from?
It's from one of the publishers
I've been waiting to hear from.
About your stories?
What did they say?
I don't know. I need you
to open it for me.
Are you sure?
Mm-hmm.
[♪♪♪]
What?
"Dear Miss Thatcher,
thank you for your submission.
We regret to inform you..."
Elizabeth, I'm sorry.
It's fine, really.
You know what
you should do?
You should send them
a letter in the morning.
It's a rejection letter.
That usually means one thing.
Ask them to reconsider.
I know you're trying to help,
but they didn't like my stories.
That's the end of that.
I don't think that you
should give up so easily.
Jack. Ahh.
I think I'd rather not
talk about it.
Can we just finish our dinner?
[♪♪♪]
Don't let one letter
discourage you.
You're a wonderful writer.
That's what Jack said.
You should listen to him.
I know.
What?
Last night, he was doing that
thing he does whenever I'm upset
where he tries to fix everything
instead of just listening.
Men will be men.
Heh. I just wish
they liked what I wrote.
Elizabeth,
it's like art--
not everyone's
gonna have the same opinion.
Wait. Are we talking about
my problems or yours?
Mm, maybe a little of both.
Heh heh heh.
How was your meeting
with Mr. Wyatt?
Well, there are
two sides to every story.
Mr. Wyatt
wants what he wants,
and Jed and the farmers
don't want to move,
so we're at a stalemate.
So how will you choose?
I'm not.
I'm gonna put it to a town vote.
There's too much riding on it.
Oh, good morning,
ladies.
Abigail,
I'm glad I caught you.
I had an idea
for your dinner menu.
Roasted quail
with minted-pear sauce.
Mm. I'll write down
the recipe for you.
Oh, thank you, Rosemary,
but the cafe menu is set.
Don't you think
it's time for a little change?
The entrées are a little stale.
Heh heh heh.
Oh, goodness.
Pardon the pun.
My entrées are fine.
And why the sudden interest
in my menu?
Well, it's the least I can do
now that I'm working here.
Since when are you
working at the cafe?
Since last night.
Mr. Avery hired me.
Oh, he did, did he?
No need to thank me,
Abigail.
I am more than happy
to lend a hand
in your time of need.
In fact...
I should help Clara
with the breakfast rush.
Don't you worry about a thing.
You just tend
to all that mayor hoo-ha,
and we'll hold down the fort
while you're gone. Heh heh.
Heh heh.
"Hoo-ha"?
Watercolors? Art paper? Pencils?
What are you working on?
Just some painting.
It's been a while.
[DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES]
Why were we not notified about
the bear sighting at school?
FLORENCE:
I swear I heard something
behind our house last night.
Rosaleen said something was
scratching right at our door.
Ladies, ladies.
Now, I have checked the woods,
and there's no sign of a bear,
but I will talk to Robert
and see if there's something
I might be missing.
Do you suggest we do anything
in the meantime?
Just to be safe...
I suggest you go home
and lock your doors,
wait until you hear from me.
Can you do that?
Of course, if that's
what you think is best.
Oh, I do.
How long are you gonna
make them wait?
Few hours should do it.
Or maybe a few days.
[BOTH SNICKER]
Must be Murphy.
How can I help you?
Jesse Flynn. Mr. Coulter
told me to see you about a job.
That's good news. We need men
on the logging crew
and the green chain.
I don't think that's what
Mr. Coulter had in mind.
Oh, what did he say?
He wanted me in the office.
Said something about...
management potential.
Okay. If that's what
the boss wants...
Here. These are
the latest harvest reports.
Make sure they match
the inventory. Welcome aboard.
[♪♪♪]
Mmm.
It was black.
It looked pretty mad
when I scared it away.
Do you remember seeing
anything else, Robert?
Uh, don't think so.
Can I go back and play now?
Sure.
Yesterday,
the bear was brown.
This is the first I'm hearing
of it having giant teeth.
Are you thinking
what I'm thinking?
There was no bear.
You're gonna have to
have a talk with him.
It's better
if he comes to me.
And just how are you
gonna make him do that?
I have my ways.
There's nothing worse than
a guilty conscience.
Ha. It's never
gonna happen.
Are you speaking
from experience?
I... may have wandered
from the truth now and then
when I was a boy.
And since then,
it's been the truth
and nothing but the truth?
I'm a Mountie. No choice.
Says it right there
on the application form.
[GIGGLES]
[♪♪♪]
Yes, I know you ordered
the eclairs,
but the fruit plate is
much better for you. Trust me.
This is
for Ray Wyatt.
ROSEMARY: That's Ray Wyatt?
From the railroad?
Mm-hmm.
Hmm.
Your sandwich, Mr. Wyatt.
Now, I don't believe
we've had the pleasure. I'm--
Rosemary Coulter.
I recognize you from
your picture in Lee's office.
Although I must say,
it doesn't do you justice.
Well, he speaks
very highly of you.
Oh. Well, I think
we'll be in business together
for a long time.
He's been working very hard
ever since the railroad
came to town.
And he won't be
the only one.
We're gonna put a lot of people
to work in this valley.
And jobs are important.
But I must tell you,
some of the wives are worried
that their husbands
will be too busy
to spend any time
with their families.
I'm afraid this business
isn't for the faint of heart.
I take it
you're not married?
No, ma'am. I'm never home.
But if I'd met someone
as beautiful as you,
well, I think I would've
had to reconsider.
[♪♪♪]
I have to thank you,
Mr. Wyatt.
For what?
You just gave me
a brilliant idea
for my advice column. Huh.
Federal prosecutors have
new evidence on Henry Gowen.
It sounds like they're making
an airtight case.
Music to my ears, Jack.
He could only cover his tracks
for so long.
Collins told me
he offered you a position
with the crime unit
up north.
I'm surprised
you didn't mention it.
I didn't want to say anything
until I made a decision.
Division leader? That's quite
an accomplishment, Jack.
Collins wants an answer
by the end of the week.
I'm not sure
what to do.
You'll figure it out.
[CLICKS TONGUE]
Bill, do you have
a moment?
Something wrong?
It's Jed Campbell.
I'm worried about him.
I saw him chase some surveyors
off his land yesterday.
Anyway, I was wondering
if you might speak with him.
He seems to listen to you.
I'll go see him this afternoon.
[SIGHS]
[♪♪♪]
Fire!
Water. Get water.
[♪♪♪]
We heard Mr. Avery
call for help,
so we came runnin'.
Did you see
anyone else?
Not a soul.
What happened?
Looks like arson
to me, sir.
Could've been an accident.
Ember from their campfire.
Has anyone questioned
Mr. Campbell?
We all know he's not happy
about the railroad.
I'll talk to him.
This is why I asked you
to take us on as a client.
The railroad needs someone
with ties to the community,
someone who can stop things
like this from happening.
I haven't made
my decision yet.
Well, maybe this will help.
Take my offer... add 10%.
10%
is an interesting number.
Is 20 more interesting?
25 would be.
25 it is.
Do we have a deal?
It's a deal.
[♪♪♪]
Miss Abigail,
do you think I'm brave?
Well, of course, I do.
Why do you ask?
Robert's a hero
'cause he scared off that bear.
I've never done anything
like that before.
Do you remember what
Constable Thornton said
when he got that medal?
He said heroes
are ordinary people
who do special things,
and lots of times,
they don't even
get attention for it.
I have never done
anything special.
Of course you have.
You took care of your sister
when she was sick,
now look at how well
she's doing in school.
You gave Dasher a home.
Heh heh.
And you do special things for me
every day of the week.
Those don't count.
Anyone that does something
to help someone else
is a hero to me.
Do you really mean that?
I do. Now say your prayers
and get some sleep.
Miss Abigail?
I just want you to know...
you're my hero, too.
Oh, Cody.
[♪♪♪]
Your dad set that fire.
Take it back.
It's true,
and everyone knows it.
No, it's not.
Laura, Cyrus, what's going on?
He's telling everyone
that my dad set that fire.
Because he did.
Cyrus, stop.
Everyone, inside.
My dad didn't do anything wrong.
He told Constable Thornton.
Cyrus is just scared
about his dad's job.
That's all.
He didn't mean it.
Why can't they put the railroad
somewhere else?
I don't want to move.
Laura...
it's complicated,
but everything's
gonna be all right,
and no matter what, you'll
always be with your dad,
and you'll always have
each other. Okay?
I didn't think you were
seriously considering
the railroad's offer.
I know it's bad timing.
I have to ask.
Why the railroad?
The money's good.
Mm. That's not
the real answer, is it?
It's good as I got.
What was that for?
For hiring Rosemary
without asking.
Would you like me
to fire her?
No, of course not.
Well, then, you're welcome,
Madam Mayor.
Thanks for
bringing me lunch.
Are you allowed to
take off the time?
It's only
your second day.
Ah, it's fine.
Lee won't mind.
What kind of work
are you doing?
Uh, a little of this,
a little of that.
You know, I figure,
in a few years,
I'll just start my own company,
hire my own crew.
That's when the real money
starts coming in.
Could that
really happen?
Of course it could.
What about you?
What about me?
Do you really
want to work at the cafe
for the rest of your life?
No, but Abigail
needs me.
Clara, you can do so much more.
You have dreams, don't you?
Ahh. I do...
but they'll never happen.
They will if you try.
You only have one shot
at this life.
You have to make the most of it.
Got to be brave, take chances.
[♪♪♪]
You mean like this?
"That day, the shepherd boy
learned an important lesson.
"If you want people to believe
and trust what you say,
you must always be truthful."
Can anyone relate to the story
of The Boy Who Cried Wolf?
I'm sure someone here can.
Your writing assignment
is three paragraphs
on truth and honesty.
Class dismissed.
[CLANGS]
Robert, I'd like
to talk to you.
Robert, you understand
why it was wrong
for the shepherd boy
to lie about seeing the wolf?
Yep.
So... is there something
you'd like to tell me?
Excuse me, Miss Thatcher?
We're sorry to interrupt.
Mr. and Mrs. Weise.
What can I do for you?
We heard about Robert
scaring away that bear,
and we wanted
to give him a reward.
This is for you, son.
If anything happened to Opal,
I don't know what we'd do.
Robert?
Would you like
to say something?
Thank you.
[SIGHS]
Rosemary?
Just a moment, please.
Aren't you
supposed to be working?
I was, but...
I had a fabulous idea
for my advice column,
and I had to write it down
before I forgot.
"Dear Mary-Rose,
a friend of mine
"is worried that the railway
will work her husband
to the bone."
Is this your subtle way
of telling Lee
that he's working too much?
This isn't just for me.
This is a community service.
This town
will be booming soon,
and my readers
will be home alone,
eating dinner all by themselves,
the poor dears.
I need to sound the alarm
before it's too late.
And if Lee takes the hint,
it's just icing on the cake?
That's right. Oh.
Speaking of that...
there's a cake in the oven.
Would you be a dove
and take it out, please?
[CARRIAGE CLICKS]
[GRUNTS]
May I?
You're the nurse
in town.
Yes. Faith Carter.
Nice to meet you.
I'm--
Ray Wyatt. The whole town
knows who you are.
Oh. Well...
there you go.
Are you riding out?
Mr. Goldeen has the flu,
so I'm going down to
the railroad camp to see him.
We're lucky to have someone
as dedicated as you are.
I'm just glad I can help.
Mayor Stanton spoke to me
about your concerns,
and I told her the railroad
will gladly cover the cost
of expanding the infirmary.
Well, I appreciate that.
It's the least we can do.
It was nice meeting you.
You too.
Okay.
He's very charming,
isn't he?
I guess.
Do you know
much about him?
Heh.
Like is he married?
That's not exactly
what I had in mind, but--
I hear he's a bachelor.
But I'd be careful.
Why's that?
Well, you know
these railroad men.
Here today, gone tomorrow.
Maybe he's different.
Maybe...
But maybe not.
Feels like this town
can't agree on anything,
and I'm stuck in the middle.
Maybe somebody else
should be mayor.
I think you need
to have a little faith.
Spoken like the town pastor.
Spoken like your friend.
[DOOR OPENS]
Hello, Henry.
Good afternoon.
What can I do for you?
Well, I wondered if I could
speak with you a moment
about the railroad.
I understand
that you're going to take
the proposed route
to a town vote.
It seems like
the best thing to do.
You're the mayor. You have
the power to make that decision.
A vote could allow emotion
to enter into it.
Well, I think emotion
should enter into it.
Well, sometimes, the mayor
has to make decisions
that may be unpopular,
but they're in
the best interest of the town.
Forgive me
for being blunt, Henry,
but I don't think
you're in a position to comment.
You'll forgive me
if I can't take seriously
the criticism
of a convicted felon.
That's enough.
If you take this to a vote,
there may be those
that feel you're too weak
to make the decision.
That's your opinion.
Yes, Frank, that's my opinion.
And you're not
the mayor anymore.
No, I'm not
the mayor anymore,
but Abigail
did ask me for some help.
And I'm asking you to leave.
I said enough. I appreciate
your opinions, gentlemen,
but the decision is made.
The town will vote.
Cody. Psst.
Look at this.
Opal's parents gave it to me.
It's a reward.
Wow. A whole dollar.
What should I do?
You could spend it
on candy.
Don't you get it? They think
I'm a hero, but I'm not.
Of course you are.
You scared away that bear.
No, I didn't. I made it up.
There was no bear.
There wasn't a bear?
No.
Then why did you
say there was?
Opal wouldn't come inside,
so I tried to scare her.
Better tell
Miss Thatcher.
I can't tell. She'll hate me.
Do you think Constable Thornton
is gonna arrest me?
I don't know. Miss Abigail
says lying is bad.
I can't go to jail.
My parents will kill me.
What am I gonna do?
I'm dead meat.
[♪♪♪]
[INDISTINCT CHATTER]
You're back early, Boss.
How'd it go?
Sealed the deal.
Ho-ho.
With the new equipment
we ordered,
should double production
by the end of next month.
Sounds good to me.
Um, I stopped by
the house on the way up.
Rosemary wasn't there.
You seen her?
She was in the cafe
this morning.
She's up early. Oh, uh,
where did you put Jesse?
In the office,
like you said.
Really?
Hmm.
Mr. Coulter. I, uh, didn't
expect to see you today.
I guess we're both
full of surprises, huh?
Uh... I had a chance
to look at the sawmill log,
and I noticed
that the spruce
keeps dinging up
the number-two head saw.
Uh-huh.
So I thought if you cut
the cedar in the morning
and saved the spruce
for the afternoon
you might save time.
You know what?
You remind me a lot of myself
when I was your age--
full of confidence,
always looking for a shortcut.
Let me
tell you something, kid.
There is only one way
to the top,
and that's from the bottom.
Are you going to fire me?
Much worse.
I'm gonna put you to work
on a logging crew.
You pass that test,
maybe we'll talk.
Going somewhere?
I'm running away.
Sounds serious.
Yeah, it's bad.
I guess you got a plan, right?
Place to live? Job lined up?
No. I guess
I'll just be a drifter.
That's not
any kind of life.
Unless, of course,
you join a gang and rob banks.
There's always that.
I don't think my parents
would let me.
Well, maybe you better
think this through.
I don't have a choice.
I told a lie.
The whole town will hate me
when they find out.
It's never good
to tell a lie,
but it may not be
as bad as you think.
It's worse.
Yeah.
You know, when I was 10,
these older boys
dared me to pull a prank
on Doc Timmins.
He was this old coot
that lived down the road
and didn't much care
for us kids.
So that night, I opened the gate
and let his horses out.
I found out the next day one of
the horses didn't come back.
What did he do?
Well, he was pretty mad.
It's his favorite horse.
He really missed her.
So what happened?
I didn't say anything
at first,
but then...
guilt got to me.
I couldn't sleep.
I couldn't eat.
I knew that I had to
go to Timmins and confess.
Did he tell on you?
No.
He didn't tell anyone.
He just looked me
in the eye,
he shook my hand,
and he said, "Son...
this is the most important
mistake you'll ever make."
And was it?
You bet it was.
I learned that
there's nothing worse
than a guilty conscience.
[DOOR OPENS]
Hello?
Oh.
Lee. I wasn't
expecting you back so soon.
Well, I got done early,
and I wanted to surprise you,
but it would seem that
the surprise is all mine.
Well, you've been so busy
with work,
I decided I needed something
to keep me busy as well.
You don't mind, do you?
No, not at all.
Good. And I'll still
have time for us.
It doesn't mean
I love you any less.
Uh-huh.
Of course it doesn't.
Let me get you settled.
All right. Thank you.
And I will be right back
with your coffee. Oh.
I know you like to read
the paper with your breakfast.
I think you'll
especially enjoy page three.
All right.
Thank you.
[COUGHS]
[♪♪♪]
So you didn't see a bear?
You made the whole thing up?
Well, I'm really glad
you came to me.
That took
a lot of courage.
I'm sorry, Miss Thatcher.
It won't happen again.
And you'll return the reward
to Opal's parents?
I already did.
Is Constable Thornton
going to put me in jail?
Not this time.
Ahh.
You may go now, Robert.
[BOTH CHUCKLE]
You were right.
He came to you.
The truth
always finds a way.
I have a surprise for you.
What?
Close your eyes.
Open.
Oh, Jack...
These are my stories?
You painted
all the illustrations.
It's really beautiful.
You did all this for me?
Of course.
Your writing inspires me,
so I wanted to be
your first publisher.
It's perfect
and so are you.
Lee?
Are you home?
[PHONOGRAPH PLAYING]
["LET ME CALL YOU SWEETHEART"
PLAYING]
What is all this?
Come here.
Champagne.
I'm sorry
I've been so busy lately.
Lee, you don't
have to apologize.
Yes, I do.
You are the most important
person in my whole world,
and I'm going to make sure
you never forget that.
So here's
to date night.
[CLINK]
And... we're going to
do this every week.
I like the sound of that.
Come here.
I thought the railroad
coming to town
was going to be a good thing,
but now I'm not so sure.
I got some news myself
this week.
I should've
told you earlier.
What kind of news?
Collins offered me a job.
A special unit
in the Northern Territory.
Division Leader.
So what are you
going to do?
I wrote...
and I turned him down.
That must've been
a very hard decision.
It was an honor
to be asked.
But my life is here.
You're here, Elizabeth.
You've heard our proposal.
Tonight, you have a choice.
A vote for progress...
or a vote against it.
The decision is yours.
On behalf of
the National Pacific Railroad,
I want to thank you
for your time,
and I hope that
this is the start of
a long and prosperous
relationship. Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Wyatt.
Would anyone else like to speak?
I would.
Someone once told me
that there are always
two sides to every story.
If the railroad
comes through Hope Valley,
many people will prosper.
But if it's done the way
Mr. Wyatt proposes,
others will pay
for that prosperity.
It's easy to get swept up
in the promises
when you're not the one
losing your home
or losing your livelihood.
The decision is yours.
Just please consider
both sides of the story.
Thank you, Elizabeth. If no one
has anything else to say,
it's time to vote.
All of you in favor
of Mr. Wyatt's proposal,
uh, please stand.
Now please be seated.
Now all of you
opposed to the proposal...
You may be seated.
I have the same
on both sides.
So do I.
Seems we have a tie.
What do we do?
According to the bylaws, the
Mayor's vote breaks the tie.
It's up to you,
Abigail.
Mr. Wyatt has told us
if we don't sell him
the land he wants
that he and the railroad
will leave this valley for good.
But I'm calling his bluff.
This decision
doesn't have to be either/or.
I've proposed
an alternative route
that would allow the farmers
to stay in their homes
and the railroad to bring
the main line to Hope Valley.
Hope Valley wants
this railroad, Mr. Wyatt,
but not at any price.
I vote against
the railroad's current proposal.
[♪♪♪]
[CLOSING THEME MUSIC PLAYING]